In this video we going to discuss IP version 6 access control lists or IP v 6 AC ls on the same way
as with IP version for IP vs 6 access control lists allow you to permit or deny traffic in your network
and are a component of a layered security model
access denied
and it's quite an extended access list so that's the access list we've got a point on gigabit to 0 zero
so say no and remove the access list to show IP vs 6 interface gigabit 0 0 doesn't show any access lists
applied to the interface and again show run shows us that no access list is applied to the interface
so we can ping
the loop back of router 3 from both the gigabit to 00 interface and loop back interface of wrought a
1 so let's create another access list so IP vs 6 access list and I'll use a name such as ACL 2 would
make more sense to use better names than that but that's okay for this lab.
Now I'm gonna specify a protocol so permit TGP any any permit ICMP 2001 colon 1 colon colon slash 64
going anywhere.
Interface gigabit 00 IP v 6 and we have to use traffic full to here ACL to inbound.
So again can write a 1 ping the loop back of rudder 3.
The answer is no when using the loop back as the source but it can paying the loop back of router 3
using the physical interface.
Can we Telnet to the loop back of rudder of 3 the moment it says connection refused.
Let's have a look to the VQ y line of Aurora 3.
We need to allow telnet on the line to line V2 y 0 for transport input.
All passwords.
Cisco enable password Cisco to try again.
We can Telnet to the Rada and what happens if we telnet using a source interface of looped back zero.
Notice we are able to Telnet to Router 3 using both the loop Bank as well as the physical interface
but we can't ping from the loop back off Route 1.
So just to reiterate
we have created an access list show IP vs 6 access list we've created to the success list called access
list too.
That's permitting any TCB traffic but it's only permitting ICMP traffic from this network there is an
implicit to deny.
So when traffic is sent from this loop back address as the source it's dropped
because it's not permitted by the statement or by the statement.
But if we Telnet to the loop back from the local loop back it works.
Notice when we do show access list we can see the matches have increased and just pulled us to the right
and put in the password to that again.
Notice matches of increased hit Enter matches have increased and try again.
Matches have increased so telnet is permitted from the loop back of this router but ICMP isn't.
So again pings of failing
and that's because of this access list is only permitting ping ICMP traffic from this network.
We've also applied the access list inbound on gigabit.
0 0 of rudder 2 so that's an example of an extended IP version 6 axis list.
A lot of the knowledge that you have with IP version 4 can be applied directly to IP version 6 access
lists.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
If you did please like it and please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.